For the CIS, we have:

Canon: Half of a failstate, as the CIS was designed to lose. There is, however, a way to play it kind of successfully: if Dooku is clever about it, he can outmaneuver and assassinate Palpatine and bring about Dooku's Galactic Empire, with himself as the power behind the throne of a puppet Emperor.

LS Dooku: Dooku makes an effort to find redemption and make the CIS a functional state. This can succeed and produce a genuinely Democratic Confederacy, or Dooku can be assassinated, leading to a Corporate Puppet path or Grievous' Junta. Or you can stumble upon the secret path and kick off the Droid Revolution.

DS Dooku: Dooku decides to look into history to form a new path to seize power in his own right. Rejecting the Rule of Two, he looks to build a power base of new Sith loyal only to himself. If he manages this successfully, he founds a new Sith Empire. If he fails to keep control of the Sith, it may simply collapse into warlord states, or Asajj Ventress may take over and bring about a new Brotherhood of Darkness where the Sith are theoretically a brotherhood of quasi-equals, or a Reformed Sith Empire that rejects excessive use of the dark side and seeks detente with the Jedi.
So we'll number them for the sake of convenience:
1. Dooku's Galactic Empire
2. Democratic Confederacy
3. Corporate Puppet
4. Grievous' Junta
5. Sith Empire
6. Collapse
7. Brotherhood of Darkness
8. Reformed Sith Empire
X. Droid Revolution
Each of the three path beginnings has a central mechanic.

For canon, it's The False State. The fundamental dysfunction of the Confederacy will give more and more debuffs with time, and you have to have a strong enough position against the Republic for Palpatine to rely on you enough for you to kill him and take over the nascent Empire.
LS Dooku can make decisions to weaken the effects of The False State and eventually get rid of its national spirits, but has to balance this against Sidious' Suspicion, too much of which will get you assassinated before you can fully break free. If you succeed, you have to manage the democratic elements of the Confederacy, but screwing it up will only weaken you and not get you killed; the Corporate Puppet path, on the other hand, demands that you keep a tight rein on politics, otherwise you'll get couped by Grievous. Grievous himself has the easiest time holding power, but the fewest positive national spirits.
DS Dooku can get rid of The False State a lot faster, but then you get the Balance of Power mechanic between Darth Tyranus and Asajj Ventress, which culminates in a conflict that will lead to the Collapse path if you don't resolve it in time. Ventress winning will result in a temporary burst of chaos before getting to the Atop the Pile focus tree that lets you start stabilizing the Empire again. 
