or the Galactic Empire, what I have thought about and what i will make up right now

Canon: Galactic Empire forms through Order 66 - we are undecided on whether or not that is the only way it will form, canon or not. The Empire will consolidate its gains and reconquer much of the Galaxy, starting with the foundation for human supremacist policy, slavery, etc.

v Alt Hist v

1. Vader's Empire: Anakin overthrows Palpatine very early on, e.g on Coruscant after returning with his red lightsaber - and seizes the Empire for himself, likely resulting in some anti-hutt/slaver gaming. Good to note that in this and all following coup scenarios, the Empire collapsing should be a considerable risk as the one guy with the whole plan and all the support behind his rule suddenly gets thrown out a skyscraper window

2. Military Dictatorship: Anakin overthrows Palpatine very early on and fucks off, or Palpatine dies by other means and so on. The military steps in likely under someone like Tarkin or some other big cheese, likely resulting in a transitional period until someone can be declared Emperor and take over the reins, Imperial policy etc depending on who it is - including civilians, e.g Mas Amedda. Its possible that some seditious element leads this military government instead and disintegrates any support for the Empire with their own spin on what the new galactic hyperpower should be

3. "Sane Empire": Either put into power through a "liberal"-led military coup/intervention and civilian restoration or gains popularity over the coming decade and such - most of the proper policy and such would literally have to be saved for a legendary HoD 2 as galactic empires take some time to build. If they have a sufficient majority or the authority to run their agenda through, the worst anti-alien policy would either not get passed or be indefinitely on hold as the Sane Imps seek the truth on their beliefs and an alien supporter base for their vision 

^ would be good to note that the "Sane Empire" doesnt necessarily have to go through or be about the honorary human thing at all - id like to turn it into an umbrella for paths that actually try to run a galactic empire long-term - for an example through the implementation of my fictional "Apex" doctrine, which as ive once said is basically listening to Tarkins suggestions and then doing the complete opposite, such as actually camouflaging their troops, diversifying the imperial fleet, using the death star as a mobile supply hub and fortress for planetary invasions, etc.

As for any unique mechanics, they would all likely share mechanics around resistance and compliance, integrating planets into the bureaucracy, putting down minor revolts, etc.
Probably also for dealing with the Imperial Senate - which for better or worse ive said would have like 20% popularity but naturally slowly fade into obscurity. Empowering the senate could play into a "sane" empire path or its eventual collapse/weakening - because as powerful as the death star is, one guy being the senate doesnt go well with trying to run a galactic empire 
while theres alot of content we could cram into the empire as an endgame tag, it would feel more like an extended showcase since if we're to be realistic with the time it takes to set up a pan-galactic hyperpower, itd be... alot.
hence why I specifically say something more ambitious like the legendary Sane Empire would have real content in a supposed sequel to HoD. Six years isnt enough to get a reformist political movement started within the Empire - from the top down or bottom up, both are very wishful thinking. Hence also why unless they immediately take power through a military transitional government, theyre only going to slowly growing in the shadow of other major imperial factions